
Welcome to nDPIng!

The aim of this unique project is to bring new quality to the field
of traffic classification by providing the results on many levels.
The clear, unambiguous identification of network flows is meant to be
ensured by various classification techniques combined into a single
tool. The following information is intended to be given for each flow
inspected by the classifier:
- transport layer protocol
- all the application-layer protocols
- type of the content
- service provider
- content provider (content delivery network: cdn)

The project is now in a development alpha stage. This means that
NOTHING works besides the features pointed out below. However, every week
the library is enhanced by including new features.

1. The code of the library compiles on Linux as a stand-alone library.
Linux kernel version and Windows versions are not officially supported.
They can work, but they do not need to. The code is not tested against
those purposes.

2. The library provides accurate results for the supported protocols and
applications. The number of applications currently supported is exactly the
same as the number of applications supported by nDPI.

3. The current format of the obtained results is not the final one.
However, it demonstrates various new techniques used by nDPIng. The results
obtained from nDPIng are easy to be accounted and they are given as:
a) protocol - beginning from TCP/UDP, then going into higher levels;
b) content (if detected);
c) service (if detected). The service is defined as the well-known name of
the remote host. So, for example, it could be "Facebook" for web browser
flows from Facebook.
d) content provider (content delivery network: cdn) - the entity which
physically is involved in the communication, for example, Akamai or Google.

Few examples of the currently obtained results:

- "proto: TCP->SSL_with_certificate->POP3S, service: Google" means that it
is an encrypted POP3 session with a Google mail server.
- "proto: TCP->SSL_with_certificate, service: Twitter" means that it is an
encrypted connection to a Twitter server.
- "proto: TCP->FTP_Data, content: JPG" means that it is file-transfer FTP
session, which carries a JPG image.
- "proto: TCP->SSL_with_certificate->Dropbox, cdn: Dropbox" means that
this is an encrypted Dropbox session (the application is Dropbox) with the
Dropbox server, while "proto: TCP->SSL_with_certificate, cdn: Dropbox"
informs about an encrypted session with a Dropbox server, while the
application is unknown (it can be a web browser connection).
- "proto: TCP->HTTP, content: WebM, service: YouTube, cdn: Google" informs
about a flow from YouTube coming from Google server, which transports WebM
movie.
- "proto: TCP->HTTP, service: Google, cdn: Google" means that it is an HTTP
flow from Google, obtained from the Google server.

There is a possibility to obtain the domain names which are associated with
the service and content providers - see the example application.

4. No extensions available in nDPI (as excluding specific protocols,
user-defined protocols, etc) are available so far in nDPIng.

5. The documentation built for nDPI is no longer valid, as the nDPIng API is
different. No documentation for nDPIng will be provided unless nDPIng reaches
the first release stage.

6. The applications / code designed to work with nDPI will not work with
nDPIng without changing the way how the library is used. Moreover, the
current design and API of nDPIng is provisional. It means that in any
revision it can (and many times will) change without any prior notice.

7. An example Linux application using nDPIng is included in the "example"
folder. The compilation instructions and the documentation is contained in
the folder. The code of the example application compiles on Linux as a
stand-alone application. The example application can be customized by
changing #defines - look at the documentation.

8. No change log will be provided unless nDPIng reaches the first release
stage.

Tomasz Bujlow <tomasz@skatnet.dk>
